Update TiDB Dashboard docs for 6.0 features (#8229)
pingcap/docs: dashboard/top-sql.md

---
title: TiDB Dashboard Top SQL page
summary: Using Top SQL to find SQL statements with high CPU overhead
---

> # TiDB Dashboard Top SQL page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB Dashboard Top SQL Page
```

With Top SQL, you can monitor and visually explore the CPU overhead of each SQL statement in your database in real-time, which helps you optimize and resolve database performance issues. Top SQL continuously collects and stores CPU load data summarized by SQL statements for any seconds from all TiDB and TiKV instances. The data can be stored for up to 30 days. Top SQL presents you visual charts and tables to quickly pinpoint which SQL statements are contributing the high CPU load of a TiDB or TiKV instance over a certain period of time.

Top SQL provides following features:

* Visualize the top 5 types of SQL statements with the highest CPU overhead through charts and tables.

> * Display detailed execution information such as queries per second, average latency, query plan, etc.

Author: Great thanks for the grammar correction :)

Top SQL cannot be used to pinpoint non-performance issues, such as incorrect data or abnormal crashes.

The Top SQL feature is still in an early stage and is being continuously enhanced. Here are some scenarios that are **not supported** at the moment:

* Analyzing the overhead of SQL statements outside of Top 5 (for example, when multiple business workloads are mixed).
* Analyzing the overhead of Top N SQL statements by various dimensions such as users and databases.
* Analyzing database performance issues that are not caused by high CPU load, such as transaction lock conflicts.

## Access the page

You can access the Top SQL page using either of the following methods:

- After logging into TiDB Dashboard, click **Top SQL** on the left navigation bar.

  ![Top SQL](/media/dashboard/top-sql-access.png)

- Visit <http://127.0.0.1:2379/dashboard/#/topsql> in your browser. Replace `127.0.0.1:2379` with the actual PD instance address and port.

## Enable Top SQL

> **Note:**
>

> > To use Top SQL, your cluster should be deployed or upgraded with a recent version of TiUP (v1.9.0 or above) or TiDB Operator (v1.3.0 or above). If your cluster was upgraded from an earlier version, see [FAQ](/dashboard/dashboard-faq.md#a-required-component-ngmonitoring-is-not-started-error-is-shown) for instructions.

Author: ```suggestion
> To use Top SQL, your cluster should be deployed or upgraded with a recent version of TiUP (v1.9.0 or above) or TiDB Operator (v1.3.0 or above). If your cluster was upgraded with an earlier version, see [FAQ](/dashboard/dashboard-faq.md#a-required-component-ngmonitoring-is-not-started-error-is-shown) for instructions.
```

@qiancai I would like to express that if the cluster was upgraded by using earlier version (of TiUP or TiDB Operator). Please take a look again to see whether this `with` or `from` is suitable. Thanks!

Reviewer 2: Got that. I misunderstood it at first. What about updating "If your cluster was upgraded with an earlier version" to "If your cluster was upgraded using an earlier version of TiUP or TiDB Operator"?

4. Click on a SQL statement in the table to expand. You can see detailed execution metrics of different plans of that statement, such as Call/sec (average queries per second), Scan Indexes/sec (average number of index rows scanned per second), etc.

   ![Details](/media/dashboard/top-sql-details.png)

5. Based on these initial clues, you can further explore the [SQL Statement](/dashboard/dashboard-statement-list.md) or [Slow Queries](/dashboard/dashboard-slow-query.md) page to find the root cause of high CPU consumption or large data scans of the SQL statement.

Additionally,

* You can adjust the time range in the time picker, or box a time range in the chart to get a more precise and detailed look at the problem. A smaller time range will provide more detailed data, with up to 1 second precision.

  ![Change time range](/media/dashboard/top-sql-usage-change-timerange.png)

> * If the chart is out of date, you can click the **Refresh** button, or select Auto Refresh options from the **Refresh** drop-down list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If the chart is out of date, you can click the **Refresh** button or select Auto Refresh options from the **Refresh** drop-down list.
```

  ![Refresh](/media/dashboard/top-sql-usage-refresh.png)

## Disable Top SQL

> You can disable this feature by following these steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can disable this feature by following these steps:
```

1. Visit [Top SQL page](#access-the-page).

> 2. Click the **Gear icon** in the upper right corner to open the settings screen and switch off **Enable Feature**.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Click the gear icon in the upper right corner to open the settings screen and switch off **Enable Feature**.
```

3. Click **Save**.
4. In the popped-up dialog box, click **Disable**.

In addition to the UI, you can also disable the Top SQL feature by setting the TiDB system variable [`tidb_enable_top_sql`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_top_sql-new-in-v540):

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_top_sql = 0;
```

> ## Frequently Asked Questions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Frequently asked questions
```

> **1. Feature cannot be enabled as the UI displays "required component NgMonitoring is not started"**.

Author: ```suggestion
**1. Top SQL cannot be enabled and the UI displays "required component NgMonitoring is not started"**.
```

See [TiDB Dashboard FAQ](/dashboard/dashboard-faq.md#a-required-component-ngmonitoring-is-not-started-error-is-shown).

> **2. Is there any performance impact when enabled?**

Author: ```suggestion
**2. Will performance be affected after enabling Top SQL?**
```

This feature has a slight impact on cluster performance. According to our benchmark, the average performance impact is usually less than 3% when the feature is enabled.

**3. What is the status of this feature?**

> This is a generally available feature and can be used in production environments.

Author: ```suggestion
It is now a generally available (GA) feature and can be used in production environments.
```

**4. What is the meaning of "Other Statements"?**

> "Other Statement" counts the total CPU overhead of all non-Top 5 statements. With this information, you can learn how much CPU overhead Top 5 statements contribute compared to the overall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"Other Statement" counts the total CPU overhead of all non-Top 5 statements. With this information, you can learn how much CPU overhead Top 5 statements contribute compared with the overall.
```

> "Other Statement" counts the total CPU overhead of all non-Top 5 statements. With this information, you can learn how much CPU overhead Top 5 statements contribute compared with the overall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Other Statement" counts the total CPU overhead of all non-Top 5 statements. With this information, you can learn the CPU overhead contributed by the Top 5 statements compared with the overall.
```

**5. What is the relationship between the CPU overhead displayed by Top SQL and the actual CPU usage of the process?**

Their correlation is strong but they are not exactly the same thing. As an example, the cost of writing multiple replicas are not counted in TiKV's CPU overhead displayed by Top SQL. In general, SQL statements with higher CPU usage will result in higher CPU overhead displayed in Top SQL.

**6. What is the meaning of the Y-axis of the Top SQL chart?**

> It represents the amount of CPU resources consumed. The more resources consumed by the SQL statement, the higher the value will be. In most cases, you don't need to care about the meaning or unit of the specific value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It represents the size of CPU resources consumed. The more resources consumed by the SQL statement, the higher the value is. In most cases, you do not need to care about the meaning or unit of the specific value.
```

> **7. Does Top SQL count running (unfinished) SQL statements?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**7. Does Top SQL collect running (unfinished) SQL statements?**
```
